50.005_Computer_System_Engineering_-_Singapore_Uni



50.005 Computer System Engineering
==================================

Topics on the engineering of computing and networking systems: design challenges; techniques for controlling complexity; operating systems and networking systems: performance; strong modularity; client-server; naming; security and privacy, atomicity and coordination of concurrent activities; user and end-to-end applications. Case studies of working systems and readings from the current literature provide comparisons and contrasts. Students will complete two design/implementation projects.

##### **Prerequisite**

* [50.002 Computation Structures](/course/50-002-computation-structures/ "50.002 Computation Structures")

##### **Learning Objectives**

At the end of the term, students will be able to:

* Explain sources of complexity in computer system design, e.g. incommensurate scaling and emergent properties.
* Exploit systems design principles to cope with the complexity, e.g., modularity, hierarchy, layering, indirection.
* Command software tools to measure performance and understand how actual computing and network systems work.
* Explain the design and implementation of real-world computing and networking (i.e., Internet) systems, e.g., DNS, HTTP, OpenSSL.
* Develop programming skills to develop OS and networking tools and software.

##### **Measurable Outcomes**

* Use software tools to understand, measure, and design modern computing systems.
* Implement concurrent and network programs in Java.
* Explain the conceptual underpinnings of modern computing system design; apply relevant principles and techniques in conceptual problem solving.

##### **Topics Covered**

* Key challenges and basic principles in the design of large-scale computing systems
* Process management and multithreaded programming
* Process scheduling, synchronization, deadlock
* Memory management, file system, and I/O system
* End-to-end network performance (e.g., loss, throughput, and delay) and impact on network applications
* Network security: applied cryptography; key certification; confidentiality, integrity, authentication, and availability; types of network attacks; design of secure network protocols
* Network naming and addressing; DNS as a scalable and distributed infrastructure for name resolution in the Internet
* Client-server network programming; HTTP and the World Wide Web

##### **Textbook(s) and/or Other Required Material**

* Abraham Silberschatz et al., *Operating System Concepts with Java*, 8th ed. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, 2010.
* James Kurose and Keith Ross, *Computer Networking – A Top Down Approach*, 6th ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Pearson, 2012.

##### **Course Instructor(s)**

* [Prof David Yau](/profile/david-yau/)
* [Prof Natalie Agus](/profile/natalie-agus/)

Tags

[Term 5](/education/undergraduate/courses/?course-term=858)
[Core](/education/undergraduate/courses/?course-type=852)
[ISTD](/education/undergraduate/courses/?pillar-cluster=11)

