60.001_Applied_Deep_Learning_-_Singapore_Universit



60.001 Applied Deep Learning
============================

### Course Description



Deep neural networks have revolutionized the landscape of modern day AI. In this course, we will take an applied approach and dive into deep neural networks: concepts, how they work, and how the students can implement them for concrete, practical problems. Students are expected to gain experience in tackling a complete deep learning project in PyTorch, from data gathering and augmentation to implementing and running a deep neural network. They will learn fundamental concepts in machine learning and neural networks such as transfer learning, data loaders, and others.



##### **Learning Objectives**



* Be aware of the main goals of deep learning, its main application domains and current challenges
* Design and choose appropriate deep models for solving different types of predictive modelling problems
* Analyse model performance and interpret it to optimize performance
* Implement cutting edge deep learning models on a range of practical problems in PyTorch
* Explain the workings of neural networks and deep learning technologies
* Appreciate the technical skills necessary to be a capable deep learning scientist


##### **Measurable Outcomes**



* Identify important concepts and current challenges in deep learning
* Design model architectures for different applications with different modalities such as image, text and time series data
* Implement deep models in PyTorch
* Evaluate the performance of deep learning models and optimize their performance
* Explain the workings and pros/cons of different cutting-edge deep learning models
* Implement a fully working deep learning project from scratch including data processing and model optimization


##### **Prerequisite**



* [50.007 Machine Learning](/course/50-007-machine-learning)


##### **Mutually Exclusive Subject**



* [50.039 Theory and Practice of Deep Learning](/course/50-039-theory-and-practice-of-deep-learning)


##### **Textbook(s) and/or Other Required Material**



* Goodfellow, I., Bengio, Y., & Courville, A. (2016). Deep learning. MIT press.
* Zhang, A., Lipton, Z. C., Li, M., & Smola, A. J. (2021). Dive into deep learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2106.11342.

Tags

[Term 6](/education/undergraduate/courses/?course-term=859)
[Core](/education/undergraduate/courses/?course-type=852)
[DAI](/education/undergraduate/courses/?pillar-cluster=22)

